Main - male:
    Paladin
    Sword/Shield
    single target cures, single/mass defensive buffs
    slightly tougher defensivly

Counterpart - female:
    Dark Knight
    Greatsword
    single target fire/ice nukes, single/mass target debuffs
    slightly stronger offensivly

Party member 3 - male:
    Monk/Red Mage
    claws/gloves/knuckles
    weaker mass cures/mass nukes, dispel
    generalist, some mele counterattack

Party member 4 - female:
    Ranger/Rouge - fast, more frequent turns than others
    Daggers
    Throwing stars
    strong single target via daggers or good cleave via throwing (ammo needed)

Strong romantic subplot between main and counterpart. They are opposite sides of a coin.
    defensive vs offensive
    light vs dark magic
Each is a foil for the other in terms of powers, combat style, and to some extent, personality.
Each needs the other to unlock lightning magic, the most powerful type. Mixing dark and light create balance/harmony ect... This generally means physical contact.
The get togther late in the game and are able to unlock the combined power needed to save the world and restore balance.
Literal sparks each time they initially come into physical contact as their magic energies balance out. Lightning power strength directly connected to their emotional bond. (none at the start)

Most people cannot use magic as they do not have much natural magical energy. The main and counterpart and rare exceptions. The monk is the result of much practice, and he is still
weaker magically than the main two characters. But he does control and direct his magic better.

Neither type of magic (dark/light) can exist without the other. 

The monk is older and somewhat wiser. Not a master though. Seeks balance and zen and stuff. Hence the unique ability to use both dark and light due to intense training/meditation.
His wisdom is a foil for the main (as he is young and naive) at times but he lacks real world practical experence.
He is also something of a bookworm/geek.

The rouge has a family of her own but decides to join the party. She helps drive the romantic plot between the two mains as a friend of the secondary.
Her life experence acts a foil for the secondary (she is young and naive) at times but she can be a bit brash and not think things through.

The rouge and monk also foil eachother a bit, experence vs brashness.
